28/08/19 - Just created journal, Today we given several challenges. The first challenge was to calculate the sum of the numbers from 1 to 200. I learned that the sum was the number of terms multiplied by the average of the first and last terms. Afterwards we were given a collection of letters and words that we had to decipher. I discovered ROT 13, basically the way it worked was replacing each letter with 13th letter after it. The words decoded revealed "What is essential is invisible to the eye. See library checkout computer Happy.jpg" which lead us to go the library computer. I learned that we could use terminal to open files. We used terminal to open Happy.jpg, which revealed the last message. We did not time left afterwards to finish the challenge.
02/09/19 - I learned about the context for which a new system is planned, which may be to increase productivity or minimize costs, and to anticipate issues that might occur, a feasibility test should be conducted. There should be 5 feasibility test conducted, which was Technical, Economic, Legal, Operational, and Schedule. Afterwards, I learned basic commands that can be used in Terminal. E.g who, pwd, cd, ls, mkdir, echo, rm, ifconfig, mv, and more. The few things I thought were useful was creating and moving files, deleting files, and checking my ip. I was also taught the beginning of programming using Terminal using nano. Something that I thought was interesting was that each digit in an IP address could only go up to 256. 
04/09/19 - Today we learned how to describe the need for change in management and learn more basic commands in bash like echo, read, if and else. We made a program to allow the user to login in with a password, I learned how to make the password hidden using "-s".
05/09/19 - Today we learned about compatibility issues with things like legacy systems. We made a program to check range, meaning we can set a range and if the user inputs in a number that fits the range it echoes "it is valid" and vice versa, we also started to program a ramen shop wherein we print the menu for the user, and the user can choose items from the menu and I have to calculate the total price plus tax. I still have not figured out how to do that yet, it is pretty complicated.
06/09/19 - I am enjoying this class very much, though it is pretty hard for me as i do not have any background knowledge. Today we learned to compare the implementation of systems. I attempted to fix my ramen shop, but i could not find a way to allow the user to order several things at once and calculate it plus the tax, though Dr pinzon did explain it afterwards, I understood it but it was still pretty complicated. and I also learned how to upload this journal to github!
11/09/19 - It has been a while since this class, so I felt pretty rusty going into this class. Anyway, today we learned about the problems that come with data migration. Afterwards I learned how to use the whileloop, it makes sense but a bit hard to grasp, then he taught us to make an infinte loop, which was a loop that never ended until the user chose to end it, that is ofcourse if the option is given when it was programmed. As homework we were given task to make a game, I still had trouble with the commands so I decided to make something of my own pace with simple commands, I made a Rap quiz which i'm glad worked.
16/09/19 - Today we peer evaluated the homework we were given, I had to ask shin for help as I did not really understand how to incorporate some commands into my program, the class is getting tougher now but it is fun.
18/09/19 - As homework for todays class we a program that acts as a calculator, again was pretty challenging. Today we learned how to make a program that creates files in a folder as well as a program that deletes those files. For homework we had to evaluate the alternative installation processes.
24/09/19 - Once again, we had a long weekend with UWC day, again still rusty with my skills. I have to revise the commands again. Today we talked about data loss, and were introduced into a new project about a rental car app, we were told to try to relate the topics we learned to the clients problem.
25/09/19 - My reflections for the next few lessons will be on my Unit - 1 project.
